title: AlchemyMagic  
tags: magic alchemy  
# Attunement Magic## General Parameters**Source:** Magic attunement (cards)  **Concept:** Activating Magic attunement in reagents to achieve effects (Alchemical Magic)  **Aspect:** Alchemy    ## Mechanics### Magic attunementUse a (irl) 52 card french suite card deck (2,3,4,5,6,7,8,9,10,J,Q,K,A worth their respective numbers or 10 for JQK and 11 *or* 1 (player's choice) for A)Your **hand size** is **2+Source.level**, if there are more cards in your hand than your hand size allows, immediately discard one card of your choice.The colors for this purpose mean: Diamonds - **O**rder | Clubs - **M**atter | Hearts - **E**nergy | Spades - e**N**tropySpells require a certain **mix of magic**, a **casting time** and a **material component**.When the spell is cast (no matter if successfully or not), the used cards go to the discard pile.When you have **no cards left**, you are **out of mana** and need to **meditate**. See below.When you have **no material components**, you have **nothing to activate**. See regular [alchemy](/3d10/alchemy) on how to make more if you run out.When you have **no time**, use **mundane** methods of effecting change.### ConcentratingRequires *one action* and draws *one card*.When you *concentrate* look at *as many cards as you have levels in alchemical magic* before you draw, put them back on top of your deck in any order.### DedicatingMeans removing the most powerful (player chooses if there is a draw) card used in the spell after casting from the Deck, The Dedication ends, once the Card is returned to the deck. Dedicating a card **does not count against your hand size**.### SustainingIs similar to dedication, but requires more effort and **counts against your hand size**. Lower it by 1 for each sustained effect for its duration. Sustaining can be dropped at will as a free action.  ### MeditationRequires at least **six hours** in sufficient calmness with no other activity and shuffles all the cards from the discard pile into the deck. One dedicated card may be taken back into the deck.  ### Removing CardsSome effects remove cards (like Dedication), these are put into a separate pile for removed cards and are not part of the discard pile, the hand or the Deck for as long as they stay removed.Removed cards may be added into the deck in ascending Order of Power (player chooses if there is a draw), one per Meditation.Permanently removed Cards are instead removed permanently and cannot (and don't have to) be returned to the Deck.# SpellsTo cast the spell, spend at least the necessary magic and materials and roll as many dice as the task complexity commands. If concept.level or aspect.level is higher than the complexity, they refer to the highest rolled dice instead. Add dice as necessary (a good point to increase the complexity for more effects). Order the dice by value in ascending order. The result ofAspekt,Konzept@5 is referred to as **roll** in the spell.Complexity can be modified by the GM in response to changing circumstances or tries to apply a spell in an unconventional way.**There are two kinds of spells here. Magical Alchemical Processes (P) and Magical Combat Alchemy (C) **### Bend (P)**Matter 4+ Order 3+ Entropy 3+**, Material component: 10g of wax. Allows bending up to 1 kg of material, doubles affected mass for every full 2 magic and 10g of wax expended past the requirements**Casting time: 5 turns**, then the object can be bend by the caster in any reasonable way.  Effects for a specific Roll:   * 2-5  unnoticeable (edge alignment ruined for a sword)* 6-8  slightly (banana shaped sword)* 9-11 moderate bending (U turn in a sword)* 12-14 further bending (pretzel shaped sword)* 15-17 sharp bending (knotted sword)* 18-20 pinpoint bendingno self intersection**Duration: 1 Day per total magic expended**, Dedicate for duration, change then becomes permanent. If dedication is removed before duration ends, the material bends back over a time of 1 hour per additional magic expended (or one minute if none)  ### Lake of fire (C)**Energy 3+ Entropy 3+**, Material component 100ml of alcohol (in at least 20% concentration)**Casting Time: 2 Turns**Creates an area of fire, damaging everyone in it every turn, and setting them on fire on impact or three subsequent hits. Roll-5 is divided between damage and duration to a maximum of total amount spend on energy for damage and total amount spend  on entropy for duration  ### Pandemonium (C)**Entropy 11+ ?20**, Material component: one intricate clockwork ball**Casting time: 3 Turns**Upon Impact, creates an area of random transmutation, wildly varying compositions, explosions and the like.  Every turn, everything takes **the roll as damage**. Every time something of consequence (crafted objects or similar) is destroyed, the duration is extended for another turn, every time something dies, the duration is extended for five turns. All rolls within the pandemonium are halved.  ### Morph (P)**Order 9+ Matter 9+**, Material component: one Essence of Change**Casting Time: 5 Turns**Morphs **1 kg** of material to a new shape desired by the caster. Detail is determined by the roll -8 compared to crafting success.For **every magic** expended past the needed amount, **add 1 kg** to the affected mass. Requires **1 h per total magic spent - 2 h per Energy spent** and not used for additional mass (after reducing down to one hour, time is halved every step instead)  (Order 10 Matter 10 Energy 20 would morph 2 kg of material in half an hour)  ### Static Charge (C)**Order 5+ Energy 10+**, Material component: small magnet**Casting Time: 1 Turn**For every **3 Energy** spend past the needed amount, gain **one stack** (if stacks are 0, the shock is uncomfortable but not harmful, enough to interrupt though)  Then choose a metal object. A Bolt of Lightning, travels from the held magnet to the metal object, from which the nearest Target is struck, dealing **(stacks*roll-8)* damage. One stack is lost and the lightning bounces to the next valid non-visited target from there, if there is a group, every person in that group rolls (Luck,Luck)[distance from the metal object in m] and are struck in ascending order of luck rolls. If stacks is 0 it bounces to two additional targets, dealing no damage and then stops.  ### Calcify (P)**Matter 4+ Energy 4+**, Material component: crushed chalk, essence of stability**Casting Time: 4 Turns**The chalk powder is directed towards an area. Everyone in a roughly *5 meter radius* circle (or as far as the chalk powder is spread), feels a sort of numb pain, while their body calcifies.  Concentrate for 2 for as long as the spell lasts.  Everyone affected gradually **looses one from all movement based dice rolls and loses 10% movement speed and gains one armor per turn**, for roll-5 turns. The changes are permanent as long as concentration is upheld, then subside at a rate of one per turn.### Calcination (P)**Entropy 11, Energy 8****Casting time: 3 Turns**Targeted Small to medium Object is engulfed in normal flames for either one turn (catches fire only if it normally would) or as long as the effect is sustained via concentration. It deals **roll/3 damage per turn** if cast on a living being and might catch things on fire. If the fire is extinguished, the Spell ends.  ### Solution (P)**Matter 7 Order 10 Entropy 0+****Casting time: 1 Turn**Up to **1 kg** of targeted object dissolves into any touching liquid, at a rate of **1 kg/min**, if normally possible (**max saturation is roll:8** by mass). Affected mass is **doubled** for every **3 eNtropy** spent beyond what is needed on this spell.  **Duration: Dedication** As soon as the dedication ends, everything past normal solubility falls out of solution.  ### Separation (P)**Order 9 Matter0+ Entropy 6 Energy 1+****Casting time: 3 Turns**Separates **1 kg** of a sufficiently different component from a mixture. Total affected mass is **doubled** for every **3 Matter** spent beyond what is needed, rate of separation is **1 kg/h/3 spent Energy**. Needs to be sustained. Roll determines what can be separated, here some examples:  * 1-5 Water and Oil* 6-10 Salt from Water* 11-15 Metal from Ore* 16-20 Splitting Alloys### Conjunction (P)**Entropy 9 Matter 0+ Order 6 Energy 1+****Casting time: 3 Turns**Mixes two very different components, **1 kg each**, into one compound. Total affected mass is **doubled** for every **3 Matter** spent beyond what is needed, rate of mixture is **1 kg/h/3 spent Energy**. Needs to be sustained. Roll determines how well things are mixed. ### Putrefaction (P)**Matter 14+ Energy 14+****Casting time: 4 Turns**Targeted Organic Material begins rotting, turning black and hard with a rate of **1 kg/h**. *Mass* is **doubled** every **2 Matter** spent beyond what is needed, *Speed* is **doubled** every **2 Energy** spent beyond what is needed. Living things sustain **Roll/(10-Energy beyond what is needed/2)** (fractions accumulated, maximum Roll) damage per turn### Congelation (P)(stub: make thin liquid thick)  ### Cibation (P)(stub: feeding a liquid)  ### Sublimation (P)** Energy 0+ Matter 9+ Entropy 12 ****Casting time: 12 Turns**1kg Zielmaterial pro Minute beginnt sich in ein Gas zu verwandeln, ohne seine Temperatur zu ändern (Volumen ändert sich drastisch!) und bleibt ein gas für die dauer der Dedizierung (1).*Masse* ist **verdoppelt** für pro **5 überzählige Materie**.**Ergebnis** zeigt, wie viel ein Gas wird, anstatt fest zu bleiben. (beeinflusst von Objektwiderstand und ähnlichem)Am Ende der Dedikation verwandelt sich das Material in Feststoff zurück, wo immer es ist, also in sehr feinen Staub.### Fermentation (P)### Exaltation (P)(stub: purify)  ### Multiplication (P)**Order 10 eNtropy 10**(stub: raise potency)### Projection (P)(stub: use substance as catalyst)  ### Buyouancy (P)**Matter 5+ Energy 10+**, Material component: 100g Floatstone**Casting time: 5 turns****1 kg doubled** for every **2 Matter** past requirements**10% lighter/2 eNtropy*** 2   Dedicate 6* 3-4 Dedicate 5* 5-6 Dedicate 4* 7-8 Dedicate 3* 9-10 Dedicate 2* 11-13 Dedicate 1* 14-15 Concentrate 2 (or Dedicate 1)* 16-18 Concentrate 1 (or Dedicate 1)* 19-20 Concentrate 0 (or Dedicate 1)### Knallpulver (P)**Entropy 9 Matter 9 Order 9 Energy 9****Casting time: 1 minute** material component: 10+ StaubpilzAfter careful processing this incredibly volatile sparkly grey powder will produce a loud bang and quite a bit of smoke when jostled too hard. About 10 grams are produced per Staubpilz used, any amount of ingredients is processed and turned into powder, for every 100 grams (even partial amounts) one card is dedicated. The powder loses its potency if the dedication is removed.If piled up, the resulting sound can be heard clearly and loudly for 1 meter of clear air per gram used. ### Schreipulver (P)**Energy 4 Matter 4 Order 4 Entropy 4****Casting time: 1 hour** material component: 10+ Düsterwurz**Dedication:** 1/100g;  After slow, low energy processing, this very black powder will produce a long screech like that of an angry cat for as long as it is exposed to Light. About 10 grams are produced per Düsterwurz used, any amount of ingredients is processed and turned into powder.The powder can be mixed into a paste with water and spread on objects. Daylight will burn it out within 10 minutes of very loud screeching, but it will regenerate after an hour of absolute darkness.### Griffpulver (P)**Matter 12 Order 11****Casting time: 1 hour** material component: 10+ Gabelblume**Dedication:** 1/100g;  This sticky coloured powder (depends on the colour of the petals) makes gripping and climbing easy.About 10 grams are produced per Gabelblume used, any amount of ingredients is processed and turned into powder, for every 100 grams (even partial amounts) one card is dedicated. The powder loses its potency if the dedication is removed.Lowers difficulty on gripping and climbing tasks by 2, can stick things together (more resistant to shearing instead of ripping), gives +5 to hold on to weapons and similar, makes doors require a 10+ to open if applied all around.Water resistant. Overrides slimyness, oil and so on.### Atemmaske (P)**Order 11 eNtropy 8** material component: 1+ Rotwarz** Duration: 1 hour, 30 min when wet****Dedication:** 1/10;  The bright red paste this process produces can be spread on fabric to produce a breathing mask that makes the wearer nearly immune (-15 Potency) against breathed in toxins and grants the ability to breathe under water. The duration starts once the first breath is taken through them and the material slowly discolours from red to yellow to grey until it stops working.### Leuchtpulver (P)**Energy 11 Matter 11 Order 11 Entropy 11****Casting time: 1 hour** material component: 10+ Schimmerpilz**Dedication:** 1/100g;  After vigorous heating, cooling, mixing and reheating for an hour, this fine, translucent powder gives off a faint but noticeable glow. Easily overpowered by daylight, it is bright enough to lower the penalties for Darkness to 1 Malus die within 5 meters of at least 10 grams of it. Its also bright enough to read by and caps the difficulty to hit something due to visibility issues. In sunlight or when it is not glowing it remains as an iridescent, shimmering material. Stops working under air exclusion. If breathed in causes slight hallucinations, slight shortness of breath and slightly glowing blood vessels that can be seen through walls up to 20 meters way by other affected.### Schnellfackel (P)**Energy 1+ eNtropy 1+ ** **Casting time: 3 rounds (2 are mundane assembly, one is casting)** Material Components: Stick, Wax, 1/10 PhosphorTorch with wax covered end. Disturbing the wax with a fingernail or by scraping it against a wall immediately ignites it and provides normal torch light for 6 hours. After assembly, the Torches are not magical anymore.### Screaming Flask (no extra spell, just some mixing of Leuchtpulver and Schreipulver inside a corked metal flask)corked flask. when the cork is removed it shrieks for 5 minutes. every being capable of hearing gains 3 malus dice (min 0)Recorking it regenerates it within 1 hour.### Durstsand (P)**Order 17 Matter 10+ **1:1 Salt+Sand, at most 10kg each, results in equal parts Durstsand and destilled Water.Durstsand destroys Water and turns into regular sand when wet.when ingested, kills a person within 10-30 minutes unless enough Water is drunkdries up skin when touchedrisk of blindness###